docs: add a SECURITY policy (#10433)
vitest-dev/vitest: SECURITY.md

# Security Policy

## Supported Versions

Refer to the [Releases](https://vitest.dev/releases) page in the documentation for the supported Vitest versions.

## Threat Model

This section describes what Vitest treats as trusted and untrusted. A report is only considered a Vitest vulnerability if it does not require compromising a trusted element first.

> [!NOTE]
> Reports that fall outside the threat model will still be fixed if they represent a real issue, but they will not be treated as security vulnerabilities (e.g., no CVE or advisory will be issued).

Vitest threat model is largely based on [Vite's](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/security/policy).

### What Vitest Does Not Trust

1. **Network data and untrusted clients**

>    The dev server and preview server must treat all inbound network requests as potentially hostile. This includes malformed requests. Clients may be outside the developer's intended environment because of port-forwarding, shared networks, or accidental exposure to the internet.

Reviewer: Does preview server make sense here?

Author: changed to "The integration built on top of Vite's dev server"

### What Vitest Trusts

1. **Developers and their infrastructure**
   The people who invoke Vitest and the environments they use (local workstations, CI runners, containers, the operating system, and the Node.js runtime) are all assumed to be under the developer's control and properly secured.

2. **Configuration and plugins**

>    Everything in `vite.config.*` or `vitest.config.*`, the code they imports, CLI flags, and all plugins together with their transitive dependencies are treated as developer-authored and therefore trusted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Everything in `vite.config.*` or `vitest.config.*`, the code they import, CLI flags, and all plugins as well as their transitive dependencies are treated as developer-authored and therefore trusted.
```

3. **Project files and dependencies**
   All source files, assets, and installed packages (including everything in `node_modules`) that the project references are trusted.

4. **Developer-configured network targets**
   Outbound connections the developer sets up explicitly (e.g., proxy rules in `server.proxy`) are trusted because the developer chose them.

### Dev Server

- Availability issues are not considered vulnerabilities.
- Files within the configured `server.fs` boundary (dev server) are expected to be accessible to clients.
- The existence of files is not hidden and cannot be hidden due to the development tool nature. Exposing file existence is not considered a vulnerability.
- Vulnerabilities caused by the code in Vite should be reported to [Vite's security advisory](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/security/policy).

### Preview Server and Build

> - Vitest does not use Vite's preview server or builds files using Vite's `build` API. Any such vulnerabilities should be reported to Vite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Vitest does not use Vite's preview server or build files using Vite's `build` API. Any such vulnerabilities should be reported to Vite.
```

Reviewer 2: Would it make more sense to use `and` here? `and does not build files [...]`

Author: Applied @macarie suggestion

### Examples of Vulnerabilities (in scope)

> - A crafted URL causes the dev server to return file contents outside the `server.fs` boundary.
>   - `server.fs.deny` bypassed with a crafted HTTP request ([GHSA-8gvc-j273-4wm5](https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest/security/advisories/GHSA-8gvc-j273-4wm5))

Reviewer: Let's also mention XSS via Vitest UI (or built-in reporters):

```suggestion
- A crafted URL causes the dev server to return file contents outside the `server.fs` boundary.
  - `server.fs.deny` bypassed with a crafted HTTP request ([GHSA-8gvc-j273-4wm5](https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest/security/advisories/GHSA-8gvc-j273-4wm5))
- A crafted URL causes Vitest UI or built-in reporters to run arbitrary code when opened.
  - `?otelCarrier` search query XSS [GHSA-2h32-95rg-cppp](https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest/security/advisories/GHSA-2h32-95rg-cppp)
```

Author: Reworded to "A crafted URL causes Vitest WebSocket API to run arbitrary code when opened."

Reviewer: In `GHSA-2h32-95rg-cppp` it wasn't about WebSocket API though?

Author: the query allows injecting anything, but it runs in the browser. to run arbitrary code on the machine, you need ws api. I thought the latter was more important, but I can emphasise the first one, I guess

Author: Changed to "A crafted URL causes Vitest to run arbitrary code in the browser."

### Preview Server and Build

- Vitest does not use Vite's preview server and does not build files using Vite's `build` API. Any such vulnerabilities should be reported to Vite.

### Examples of Vulnerabilities (in scope)

- A crafted URL causes the dev server to return file contents outside the `server.fs` boundary.
  - `server.fs.deny` bypassed with a crafted HTTP request ([GHSA-8gvc-j273-4wm5](https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest/security/advisories/GHSA-8gvc-j273-4wm5))
- A crafted URL causes Vitest WebSocket API to run arbitrary code when opened.
  - `?otelCarrier` search query XSS [GHSA-2h32-95rg-cppp](https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest/security/advisories/GHSA-2h32-95rg-cppp)
- Missing or bypassable origin / host validation allows a cross-origin page to access dev-server endpoints that can cause confidentiality or integrity issues.
- An unauthenticated WebSocket client injects HMR messages that execute arbitrary JavaScript on the developer's machine or bypasses built-in Commands API's protective layer.

### Examples of Non-Vulnerabilities (out of scope)

> - Malicious Plugins or Dependencies (CWE-1357): Plugins, config files, and their dependency trees run with full trust during development. A compromised plugin that exfiltrates data or executes arbitrary code is a supply-chain concern for the project, not a Vitest vulnerability.

Reviewer 3: Probably we can call out custom browser mode command is user's responsiblity. I got this edit from codex:

```suggestion
- Malicious Plugins, Custom Commands, or Dependencies (CWE-1357): Plugins, config files, custom browser commands configured through `browser.commands`, and their dependency trees run with full trust during development. A compromised plugin or custom command that exfiltrates data, exposes privileged access without validating browser-provided input, or executes arbitrary code is a supply-chain or project-code concern, not a Vitest vulnerability.
```

---

Also I realized our custom command docs doesn't explicitly mention users need to validate on their own if they need same protection as our builtin command like fs. Here is my doc update suggestion for that. https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest/pull/10443
